CPP-4951 S5500 Exception for `return p` since C++23 (#3663)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5500/cfamily/rule.adoc

};
----

== Exceptions

For the {cpp}23 or later standard, this rule does not raise issues if the function returns the rvalue reference parameter.
In such cases, the parameter is implicitly moved, and an explicit call to `std::move` is not required:
[source,cpp]
----
Shape updateShape(Shape&& shape) {
  /* ... */
  return shape; // Compliant: implicitly moves shape
}
----

> An implicit move in case of returning a parameter or variable of rvalue reference parameter,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When returning a parameter or variable of rvalue reference parameter, an implicit move
```

> was introduced in {cpp}20 timeframe, and retroactively applied to previous standards. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
was introduced in {cpp}20, and retroactively applied to previous standards. 
```

> As a consequence, the behavior of such return statements is not consistent across complies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a consequence, the behavior of such return statements is not consistent across compilers
```

and standard versions.

> Furthermore, with the {cpp}20 rules, the implicit move is not triggered if the function

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Furthermore, with the {cpp}20 rules, the implicit move is not triggered if the function
```

> returns reference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returns a reference:
```

[source,cpp]
----
Shape&& updateShape(Shape&& shape) {
  /* ... */
  // C++23: Implicit moves, equivalent to `std::move(shape)`
  // C++20: No moves, ill-formed as Shape&& reference cannot bound to Shape&
  return shape; 
}
----

Due to all of the above, we do not treat `return p` as an exception in {cpp} standard prior to {cpp}23,
and require explicit move `return std::move(p)`. 

> In contrast to returning local (stack) variables, named return value optimization (NRVO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In contrast to returning local (stack) variables, named return value optimization (NRVO)
```

> does not apply to function parameters, so such explicit `std::move`call has no impact on optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not apply to function parameters, so an explicit `std::move`call has no impact on optimizations.
```

};
----

== Exceptions

For the {cpp}23 or later standard, this rule does not raise issues if the function returns the rvalue reference parameter.
In such cases, the parameter is implicitly moved, and an explicit call to `std::move` is not required:
[source,cpp]
----
Shape updateShape(Shape&& shape) {
  /* ... */
  return shape; // Compliant: implicitly moves shape
}
----

> When returning a parameter or variable of rvalue reference parameter, an implicit move

Author: ```suggestion
When returning a parameter or variable of rvalue reference type, an implicit move
```

was introduced in {cpp}20, and retroactively applied to previous standards. 
As a consequence, the behavior of such return statements is not consistent across compilers
and standard versions.

Furthermore, with the {cpp}20 rules, the implicit move is not triggered if the function
returns a reference:
[source,cpp]
----
Shape&& updateShape(Shape&& shape) {
  /* ... */
  // C++23: Implicit moves, equivalent to `std::move(shape)`
  // C++20: No moves, ill-formed as Shape&& reference cannot bound to Shape&
  return shape; 
}
----

Due to all of the above, this rule does not treat `return p` as an exception in {cpp} standard prior to {cpp}23,
and require explicit move `return std::move(p)`. 

In contrast to returning local (stack) variables, named return value optimization (NRVO)

> does not apply to function parameters, so an explicit `std::move`call has no impact on optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not apply to function parameters, so an explicit `std::move` call has no impact on optimizations.
```
